[AUDIO LOGO]
>>SARAH ELKHALDY:
I'm Sarah Elkhaldy,
and this is Mystery Teachings.
What if humanity stands
at a crossroads with two
divergent futures ahead--
one of ascension, the
other of dissension.
The timeline split is not
just a theoretical concept.
It's a battle between
love and fear.
A choice we make every day that
will determine which reality
we experience.
Which timeline are
you aligning with?
Higher consciousness or the
descent into fragmentation?
The concept of a timeline
split is not new,
and it did not originate
within this age.
Esoteric knowledge has always
known that timelines bifurcate.
In the spirit of this age, the
bifurcation of the timelines
is known as the ascending
timelines, which
represent a future where
humanity evolves and grows
in our consciousness
and has a higher
vibration, versus the
descension timelines, where
the future of humanity
devolves, and it
goes into a fragmentation state,
which produces a lower vibratory
rate.
So many times we can project a
lot of our own personal beliefs
onto this grand splitting of
timelines and upon our ascension
and upon our descension when in
actuality the ascension process
into more positive timelines
that all reflect a higher
vibratory rate is
not based on anything
that has to do with there being
some sort of dogma or belief
system.
Instead, this is strictly
a matter of curriculum.
If the highest truth is
one of unconditional love,
then the universe is just
giving us our next step
in our own evolution.
And that's what ascension
is really about.
It is about, what
is the next level
of lessons and our curriculum
that will best serve us?
What is that environment
that will best
help us learn the next
lesson in love and the lower
timelines for humanity, the
ones that represent degeneration
and separation consciousness?
It's not a punishment.
Instead, what it's showing
us is our own consciousness
and what will best serve
its own curriculum.
The descending timelines are
all rooted in fragmentation
and in disintegration.
This is the metaphysical
force that we know as entropy.
Entropy is a very
strong catalyst,
because what its
true purpose is,
is to take apart our
own consciousness
and then to expand it.
But this expansion
process isn't always one
that we participate in.
So even though entropy can be
a force for our own evolution,
it can just as much
lead us deep into chaos
if how it acts on
our consciousness
is through more fragmentation
and more disintegration.
Entropy has been
dissected and studied
throughout all of history.
When we look at Rupert
Sheldrake's work on entropy
in the nonphysical realm
and the nonvisible form,
the energy of entropy
is highly chaotic,
and it's highly disorganized.
So it's even more in
a state of confusion.
The more that this
state of confusion
and this state of
disorganization
happens in the energetic
field, in the physical realm,
that thing that entropy
is acting upon actually
bears an inverse relationship.
The thing that
entropy is acting upon
becomes more ordered
and more crystallized.
It becomes more physical.
So entropy actually acts
as the converter of energy
into physical form.
The second law of thermodynamics
says that entropy always
increases with time.
But entropy does not
always produce chaos.
Entropy is more like a marker.
It is a measure of the
number of different ways
that a set of objects
can rearrange.
So entropy is what fuels cell
division and timeline division,
because entropy is
what fuels expansion.
So if entropy is meant to
expand our consciousness
and this expansion
can lead to chaos,
then it is the metaphysical
force of centropy that
creates order from that chaos.
So entropy would be known as
the metaphysical force of chaos,
and its counterpart,
centropy, would
be known as the
metaphysical force of order.
Humanity itself is always
going through this contraction
and this expansion, but
it needs a catalyst.
And this catalyst that
turns chaos into true order
and into higher
timelines is free will.
Free will is the key factor
in determining whether we
will evolve or devolve.
And free will is our
conscious participation
in our own evolution.
Free will is not a given.
It is a tiny kernel
within us that we
are meant to acknowledge
and then develop.
When we develop free will, that
transforms into higher levels
of consciousness.
And in these higher
levels of consciousness,
we can actually perceive more.
We can start integrating
multiple dimensions.
So free will is very vital in
this, because without it, we
get stuck in lower
states of consciousness.
We get trapped in separation
consciousness, where things
become predetermined and even
manipulated and programmed
in front of us.
The concept of a timeline split
can be very controversial,
simply because being a part
of the spiritual community,
we really are prone
to wanting to unify
and have unity consciousness be
one trajectory moving forward,
one whole timeline for
all of us to experience,
where we all experience the
benefits of positive and higher
states of being.
But the timeline split is
actually pointing to the fact
that we all have free will.
So it's not meant to divide.
It's meant to bring clarity
and even discernment to what
is already happening.
It's meant to understand
how timelines work.
So by understanding that
we're not causing division,
we're simply clarifying that
there is a division happening,
that brings us to
the full recognition
that what drives us into
higher timelines for reality
and into lower timelines
for reality is personal,
and it is based
on our free will.
The true nature of
time is cyclical.
Time appears to us as
linear, but it is cyclical.
This is why we have
different seasons.
The seasons are a representation
of time's cyclical nature.
But it doesn't stop there.
There are larger cycles
that we don't see,
and those cycles immerse
our consciousness
into an invisible spring,
summer, fall and winter,
or what we know as dark
ages and golden ages.
Why this is important is because
time in the third dimension
repeats itself.
It recycles.
It goes into denser
expressions, and it
goes into lighter
expressions, like the peaks
and the lows of a wave.
If a being has raised
their consciousness higher
than the field of
third-dimensional time,
they begin to start
in-training their frequency
into a completely different
version of space and time,
with experiences and
lessons that best
accommodate their frequency.
When a being has remembered
they are the creator,
their frequency will
begin to raise higher
than the options and
experiences that are currently
available within a collective
space-time that is still asleep.
So a major timeline
split would be
between all of the
collective consciousness that
is ready for a new curriculum
and has already mastered
the third-dimensional
curriculum,
versus all of the
collective consciousness
that would best be
served by continuing
to grow in the third dimension.
When this split happens,
it's called phaselock,
and a phase lock
is the real name
to what we are calling the split
between the third-dimensional
consciousness and the
fifth-dimensional consciousness.
Personal timeline shifts
happen all of the time.
They happen every day.
And what the difference between
a personal timeline shift
is versus a collective timeline
shift has to do with momentum.
In our personal
lives, we will always
be able to create
the reality that we
wish to experience by
making positive changes,
raising our frequency,
being more aware,
acting and interacting
with others
in a more conscious manner.
And that will all
be benefits that we
can experience immediately.
But collective
timeline shifts that
operate at a higher
frequency require
more collective momentum.
They require more of us to
be able to manifest that
timeline since there's
more people included
in that dimension and
there's more people
included in that reality.
So our personal
timelines, we will always
be able to have a lot more
agency in manifesting what
we wish to experience
with, simply because it's
about our personal
choices and our momentum,
whereas with major
timeline shifts,
those require collective
momentum behind them
and collective free will.
When we're going into higher
timelines for humanity,
these are also known
as ascension cycles.
And during an ascension
cycle, the veils
are thinner between humanity
and our higher self.
So we get a lot of spiritual
support and spiritual growth
by having thinner veils
within our own reality.
And this is then what produces
even more growth and even
more evolution.
So this cycle ends
up becoming a spiral.
And the descension
cycles can also
be looked at as a
descending spiral.
They are cycles where the
veils get heavier and denser
because there's more separation
between us and our higher self.
This separation creates
even more fragmentation.
And when that happens,
now we start getting
into deeper states of fear.
The descending
timelines for humanity
all have a core feature,
and that core feature
is, they all are operating
in the esoteric force called
coercion.
Coercion is what drives
the descending timelines.
Because the more that we go
into separation consciousness,
the more fear will
naturally be produced.
And whenever there is
fear that is strongly
present within the dominant
vibration of a collective, that
will lead to us forcing
ourselves onto one another
and inflicting our will and our
control onto another's will.
And how we can see this
manifest is through censorship
and thought police.
When we are in
separation consciousness,
we will naturally start
operating from fear,
and that will naturally
produce coercion,
which leads to control.
Fear, coercion, and control are
all extensions of one another.
They are all different
aspects of one another
that have in common
separation consciousness.
So if the descending
timelines are all
rooted in coercion,
fear, and separation,
then the ascending
timelines are operating
and rooted in love,
order, and freedom.
Whenever we allow others to have
their own personal free will
and whenever we respect
other people's choices to be
and however they wish to
exist, what we will see
is that that naturally
organizes harmony.
That harmony is called order.
So love has fruits, and those
fruits are freedom and order.
These three forces
of love, which
creates freedom,
which creates order,
are all the core features
of an ascending timeline.
So higher vibratory beings can't
remain in lower vibratory states
for long, because when we
have enough higher vibratory
beings, what that's going
to naturally produce
is some sort shift
in the external.
The shift in the
external will be
one that has to respond to
our higher vibratory state.
If the external is always a
reflection of our internal state
of consciousness, then
a whole collective
that is entering
higher vibratory states
will produce larger
impact and more potent
reflections of that environment.
So we will manifest
changes and shifts simply
because reality won't
be able to hold.
It won't be able to lock us
in to a lower state of reality
when we're operating at
a higher level of being.
So we will naturally
create a timeline split,
and we will naturally create
a whole collective new Earth
reality simply by
raising our vibration.
So when we're talking about
the ascending timelines,
this naturally means we
have to start addressing
what the ascension process is.
The ascension process
is done through healing.
What we're really doing when
we're talking about a higher
level of consciousness,
higher timelines,
we're talking about
a more healed version
of our own consciousness
and of reality.
This healing is a
holistic process
that takes place on the
mental, emotional, physical,
and spiritual levels of
our own energy field.
This is the inclusion of
every dimension of ourselves,
which is why the
ascension process talks so
much about multidimensionality.
We are not only one-dimensional,
and because of that,
this is a multidimensional
process that takes place.
This can also be one of
those tricky sweet spots
where we are sold
something that's
made to look like
it's progressive
and it's made to look like
we're on an ascension timeline.
And what we'll see with this
false ascension is beliefs that
are masquerading as movements,
and really what they're doing
is causing more division,
more fear, and more polarity.
This is what we have
to remember when
it comes to the timeline shift.
The ascension process
is done through healing.
It's not done through polarizing
and divisive movements.
A lot of times, we see movements
that have good meanings
and they're well-intended,
and then they
devolve quickly into
being inflammatory
and really aggressive.
And this is what we're
going to have to be really
mindful of and discerning.
Because the ascension
process is going
to be done through healing, and
healing is a uniting process.
It is not a divisive
and polarizing process.
Now, when a collective
finds themselves
in a group or a movement that's
headed towards polarization
but it meant well
and the people who
were involved with
that group in movement
actually had a deep intention
for healing and for higher
timelines for
humanity, the universe
enters with divine intervention
and gives us a grace period.
This grace period is for
us to be sectioned off
before we go into a
degenerative timeline,
because the universe
reads our intention.
And it is in this grace
period that time for increased
awareness and increased
consciousness is given to us,
so that we can reorient
ourselves and become
aware of what was
taking place within us.
So if what we see was
taking place within us was,
we had good intentions, but we
became a lot more polarizing,
and we became a lot
more fear-based,
even in our intention
of being loved based,
this grace period is
what gives us time
to heal and to align
our thoughts, feelings,
and actions with that
original intention,
and that original intention
being one of healing
and to progress into positive,
more empowering timelines.
When we start
healing and when we
start becoming more conscious,
sometimes our intention
can get ahead of ourselves.
When this happens,
we can accidentally
start going through a
spiritual bypassing process.
This is when we
want to heal and we
want to be a more mature and
evolved version of ourselves,
but it's a little too soon.
And we accidentally end up
denying parts of ourselves
and our own shadow.
When we do this,
what we're doing
is avoiding anything that's
uncomfortable within us,
and we're even extending
that to beyond us.
And we start avoiding
uncomfortable truths
that even lead further
into more stunted growth.
Now, this whole
timeline split is not
going to be visible
to the naked eye.
How it manifests is
always going to be
in a continuous
progression in either one
direction of evolution or the
other direction of de-evolution.
But we're not going to be
able to actually isolate
that one specific part
of reality where we see
the glitch that produces the
timeline split and many of us
want to see it, and we're
so excited to see it.
And we even regard it as
there being a large event that
then creates the
large glitch that we
need to split the timelines.
But actuality, it's going to
be incremental shifts that
take place before our very
eyes, because timelines
split all of the time.
So it's always going to be
a natural chaos and order,
a natural contraction and
expansion, that either moves us
into a more positive direction
or a more negative direction.
So these incremental
shifts that we're
going to be seeing inside
our larger external reality
are going to be through
phasing out and making
older systems that
represent separation
consciousness obsolete
through this phasing out.
For instance, if there
is an institution that
represents separation
consciousness, control,
and fear, that institution
we're going to see phased out.
It may not just crumble
before our very eyes.
Instead, what we'll see
is another institution
gets created from
unity consciousness.
And this institution
is one that makes
the outdated system, the one
that's based in fear, obsolete.
So what we're really
talking about when
we're talking about
a timeline split
is the manifestation of very
positive paradigm shifts
that are all making
the fear-based and
separation-consciousness-based
systems obsolete.
This phase-out is how
a new Earth is created.
So even though
positive solutions
and positive
structures are going
to be phasing out the
fear-based institutions,
we're still going to see tower
moments within the old paradigm.
It's unavoidable.
We're going to see some
level of destruction.
It will just vary.
And the reason why
it varies is it's
dependent on how attached
we are to those old systems.
The more attached we
are, the more destructive
and the more chaos
we'll experience.
The less attached we are to
the old paradigm, the more
that we're going to be
experiencing a lot more grace
and ease.
So the shifts will come
both startling and smoothly,
but each are a sign that we
are moving towards a new Earth.
Some of the shifts will
appear as miraculous,
but many of the shifts will
occur as energetic blocks being
lifted.
These blocks have
to do with actions
the collective wanted to take
to help build this new Earth.
If people had been experiencing
blocks in their projects
or contributions
to the new Earth,
they will start finding
more ease and flow.
And if beneficial tools
and models for society
were being held
back, those blocks,
too, will be lifted on
the new Earth timeline.
Wherever there was once
energetic barriers,
there will only be grace.
The timeline split is
not a distant prophecy.
It's happening right now.
And the choice to ascend or
descend lies within each of us.
As we elevate our consciousness,
we step into a reality
where love, unity, and
spiritual growth prevail.
The future is not written.
It's created by the
choices we make today.